Some explanations on the OpenMP implementation of NPB 3.0 (NPB3.0-OMP)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

NPB-OMP is a sample OpenMP implementation based on NPB3.0-SER,
the serial version previously known as the Programming Baseline for NPB.
This implementation contains all eight benchmarks:
seven in Fortran: BT, SP, LU, FT, CG, MG, and EP; one in C: IS.

This version has been tested on the SGI Origin2000.  For problem
reports and suggestions on the implementation, please contact

   NAS Parallel Benchmark Team
   npb@nas.nasa.gov


1. Compilation

   NPB3.0-OMP uses the same directory tree as NPB3.0-SER (and NPB2.3) does.
   Before compilation, one needs to check the configuration file
   'make.def' in the config directory and modify the file if necessary.
   Check also the 'suite.def' file if one wants to make a suite.  Then

      make benchmark CLASS=class
   or
      make suite

   'benchmark' is one of (BT, SP, LU, FT, CG, MG, EP, IS) and 'class'
   is one of (S, W, A, B, C).

   To make an executable without OpenMP directives, one needs to
   include 'omp_lib_dum/omp_lib_dum.a' in the compilation.  This can
   be done by simply uncommenting an 'include' in config/make.def.

2. Run

   NPB-OMP assumes the static scheduling at run-time.  To ensure the
   correctness of the results, one can set the environment variable
   'OMP_SCHEDULE' to "static".
   For example in a csh:

      setenv OMP_SCHEDULE "static"
      setenv OMP_NUM_THREADS 4
      bin/BT.A > BT.A_out.4

   It runs BT Class A problem on 4 threads and the output is stored
   to BT.A_out.4.

   If one likes to profile a benchmark, the built-in timer can be used,
   which produces timing for selected code blocks.  The timer can be
   turned on by creating a dummy file 'timer.flag' in the current working
   directory (not necessary where the executable is located).

   The printed number of threads is the activated threads during the run,
   which may not be the same as what's requested.

   For larger problem sizes, the default stack size for slave threads
   may need to be increased on certain platforms.  For example on SGI
   Origin 2000, the following command can be used:
      setenv MP_SLAVE_STACKSIZE 100000000 (to about 100MB)

3. Notes on the implementation

   - Based on NPB3.0-SER, except for FT which was maintained to be closer to
     the original version in NPB2.3-serial.

   - OpenMP directives were added to the outer-most parallel loops.  No
     nested parallelism was considered.

   - Extra loops were added in the beginning of most of the benchmarks
     to touch data pages.  This is to set up a data layout based on the
     'first touch' policy.

   - For LU, the pipeline algorithm is used, which seems to perform better
     than the hyperplane algorithm.
